From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hanselman. It's a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman hosted by a
call Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number three, recorded
Monday, January 24th, 2006 support. Perhaps someone
it's provided by automated QA
makers of test complete providing
automated testing of windows.net framework,
Java and web applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com.
And by Peter bloom.com start
with better controls. Finish with
better sites online at www
dot P E T E
R B L U M.
Dot com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks about adding a windows
key to the ThinkPad 42
T keyboard, a screen grabber
called wind snap, Microsoft research
group shot, project, exit geocashing
and mashups running OSX on
Intel and Y X P
on the Mac will never
work dual boot with OSX,
a fun Aqua interface in
the HTML and how XSLT
and.net 2.0 is your friend.
. Hey, this is Carl
hope. You're having a good
Wednesday. I'm here with Scott
Hanselman on Hansel minutes. Hi
Scott. Hey Carl, how's it
going? Going well, what you
got for us this week?
Well, for the first half
of the show, I've got
a lot of stuff about
some software that has been
on my mind lately, and
I've actually been fortunate enough
to have a number of
people who've been listening to
the show, send me a
tips and tricks and things
that I'm going to share
some of those as well.
Okay. So the first one
is actually an older tip.
A lot of people have
got IBM's and it seems
that the IBM T 42
ThinkPad has kind of become
the laptop for the power
developer. Everyone loves it. It's
it's nice and sleek. It's
simple. It works. I'm pretty
happy with my , but
the one thing that everyone
knows sucks about the T
42 series is it's got
no windows key and that's
just bug the heck out
of me. I blogged a
while back about how you
can edit the windows registry
to like do a hardware
remapping. And I remapped my
right alt key to the
windows case. So I can
say right, all our for
run and write all D
and for Explorer and all
those kind of cool windows
shortcuts. Did you do that?
Cause you find you don't
really use the right alt
T as an key. Yeah.
The only thing that sucks
about using the right alt
key in this manner is
that a shift right. All
to enter, which is typically
the way that you jump
out of a full screen.
Virtual PC doesn't work so
long as I don't go
full screen with my virtual
PCs. It's okay. But other
people could remap their caps
lock key or the right
shift, or, you know, one
of those buttons that there's
a, that's not being particularly
used. Right. I put that
up at shrinks.com/b as in
boy, E S Austin. I
ended up finding a better
one from a guy named
randy@andrandyranch.com slash sharp keys. And
he's got, I think called
sharp keys that will do
the editing of your registry
for you. Now, IBM has
some keyboard remapping stuff. That'll
do this. And there's been
a number of different tools.
Chris cells has got some
scan code remapping, but this
sharp keys from Randy rants.com
has actually been one of
the simpler tools for doing
this kind of keyboard remapping.
You can even use it
for things like neutering, your
caps lock key. Cause some
people just don't feel caps
lock is useful for anything.
So you can Write a
program to hook that a
key and maybe turn it
on and off if you
want to, if you need
to. So the real question
is when you, when you
write a keyboard hook in
windows, are you trying to
catch it at the, the
message pump kind of windows
is, is capturing keys on
a particular application at the,
at the keyboard hook level
where windows is capturing it
for the hollow S or
the scan code remapping, which
basically says to the keyboard
driver. No, no, you really
didn't hear what you thought
you heard. This scan code
remapping is really the most
kind of authoritative, even in,
even in crazy applications, Fullscreen
applications, you know, direct X
applications like Guild Wars. My
right old key is for
all intents and purposes, my
windows key. So if you
just handle a little more,
Yeah. If you handled the
key down event or the
key press event in a
windows form or something good
chance, you might not get
that. This is a little
more authoritative than that. This
is a yeah. Very early
on in the process that
gets set. Okay. Okay. So
I'm looking at the list
and I see there's something
about a program called task
switch X P What's that?
Well, this is actually a
tool from the maker of
tasks, which XP a lot
of people have always felt
that not enough information existed
in the alt tab experience
in windows XP. So this
particularGuy@ntwind.com who wrote task switch
XP that you can Google
for. He's got a really
nice all tab replacement, but
he's come out with another
thing. And kind of in
the spirit of a screen
capture programs, which I mentioned
last week, Kenny, care's a
window clippings. This particular guy
has got a thing called
wind snap. And there's, there's
a million different print screen
replacements out there. But I
got to say that this
particular one's got some pretty
interesting Polish to it. It's
a trickster.com/bet. And this guy
has applied his kind of
own special style to it.
I think he's convinced that
he's going to replace every
hot key and windows. He's
replaced all tab. And I
was replacing print screen. I'm
not really sure what's next.
One of the neat things
about wind snap is that
it will apply transformations to
your print screen and automatically
add it to the clipboard.
So let's say that I
want all my print screens
to be rotated 30 degrees
to the left and have
a canvas drop shadow applied
to it. Or all of
my print screens have to
have a particular watermark that
says confidential or for your
eyes only, wow. This kind
of stuff would automate all
of that and just apply
it directly to the print
screen button. Wow. That's pretty
cool. Yeah. Yeah. I was
pretty impressed. I still like
the kind of classic intrusiveness
that Kenny stuff has. You
basically hit a hot key,
the screen dims out, you
hover over the, the, the
window that you want. You
push a button and it's
done. This guys is a
little more advanced in some
of the things around rotating
and drop shattering can be
pretty hardcore, but I can
definitely see if you were
writing a book or doing
any kind of transformations that
involve watermarking or rotating of
any kind of images. You
know, why try to build
that into a batch process
in a Photoshop when you
can have all of that
done automatically by your print
screen program. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
It's pretty cool. And actually
within the context of photos,
cause I know that you
take a lot of digital
photos. Yeah. I got it.
Took a look at this
group shot Microsoft research project,
which actually was a well-timed,
you know, I had my
family over here when the
baby was born. Most, most
family rather came over from
Tanzania and we took a
lot of group photos. A
lot of this kind of
put the camera up on
the mantel, you know, set
it for 10 seconds and
then run back. Yup. And
a lot of really bad
pictures were taken. I remember
on the final day we
took a group picture, I
think literally 10 times. And
we just could not get,
you know, 17 people to
smile at the same time.
So this group shot research
project@shrinkstirdotcomslashbuisagashingupongod.net. And so Microsoft research
program that lets you take
a series of photos that
were taken in quick succession,
not like a Panorama, but
literally a group of people.
We could actually use this
for the RDS. You know,
we'd take pictures of 60
RDS at the PDC and
the tech ed every year.
And you actually can pick
which face of which person
you liked the best from
which shot. And it will
automatically composite those into a
group shot in which everyone
is smiling. Now, Scott, I
went and I looked at
the Microsoft research page and
I looked at the screenshots
and I think they may
have done something wrong here
because the, the first picture,
like all the pictures are
the same, except for the
unwanted background noise, all the
pictures of the same. I
think what they intended to
do is the first, the
first shot, the woman isn't
smiling and the S or
the second shot, she isn't
smiling or something like that
because you see, if you
look at the, the woman
at the, on the top
tile and the first picture,
she's not smiling. And on
the second one she is,
you know, So they've taken,
they've taken two shots in
succession. She happened to me,
not smiling in the first
she was in the second.
Right. But the man looked
better in the first. So
we composite them together into
a picture in which they
are both smiling. Right. But
unfortunately the demo pictures don't
reflect that, but that's, I
think what they intended to
do. Yeah. That's yeah. That's
the intent of the thing
is to find the optimal
picture. So I actually went
back to this photos that
we took last month, took
these 17 photos of these,
you know, 15 or 17
odd people. I don't remember
if there was a lot
of us there and actually
put together a composite photo
of all of us looking
pretty good. Wow. That's not
something you'd want to share,
obviously, personal photos, But this
is, this was something that,
that people say that they'll
do a, you know, Oh,
I'll, I'll go ahead and
put that in Photoshop. But
you know, that's a real
hassle trying to get a
really nice composite and Photoshop,
you know, it can be
really tricky and it's certainly
not something that you're going
to do lightly, but I
think a research project, like
this is actually a harbinger
of something to come where
you might see something like
that in Picasa remember a
few years back red eye
reduction was an amazing, Oh
my God, they've removed red
eye, but now what application
doesn't have red eye reduction.
And you know, the thing
that immediately comes to mind
is this can be used
for more than just group
shots of people. I mean,
any kind of composite thing
that you want to do,
you know, if you're taking
pictures of the same thing
over and over again, and
you want to take individual
pieces of different things. Very
cool. Hey Scott, I was
reading your blog this weekend
and I noticed that you,
you did it, this really
complete discussion of XF and
geocashing and, and mashups. Are
you going to talk about
that today? Sure. I'm actually
just been getting into this
in the last couple of
weeks and there are a
lot of people out there
doing a lot of stuff.
So I'm not in any
way an expert in this
kind of stuff, but JPEGs
can carry what's called EXIF
data. E X I F
it's data. That's like metadata
that comes along for the
ride. Most cameras do this
and you don't realize it.
I didn't even realize that
my camera was actually saying
things like the focal length
of the lens and what
the ISO was set out
at the time, what the
white balance was set at
all sorts of bits of
information. You wonder sometimes is
it valuable? Should I put
the date time stamp on
my digital camera? A lot
of our digital cameras are
all set to January 1st, 2000. When
you put that information on
your camera, it gets written
out into tags within your
JPEGs, which allows tools like
Picasa and different image manipulation
programs to know about the
context in which that this
was written. That's very cool.
So if you look at
exit data as a place
to store additional metadata and
additional context about your photographs,
you know, what was the
camera doing? What time was
it? Yeah. What other bits
of information could you potentially
potentially store these XF tags?
Actually remind me of gift
comments. I don't know how
old school my, my audience
is, but when gifts gift
87 had an extension which
was gift comments and people
would put in the name
of the bulletin board system
that they downloaded a particular
gift on. So poor man's
metadata. Basically they just shoved
by, you know, shoved textual
data at the end of
a gift and ignored it.
But X if is a
formalized standard. So you can
take this exit data and
put anything that you want
in there. So my buddy
Patrick Caldwell, does this called geo
caching. Have you done this
before? No, I haven't heard
of this. So geocashing is
a thing that started out
in Portland where someone takes
a GPS somewhere. Yeah. Like
a treasure hunt kind of
thing. Right? So geocashing is
like a treasure hunt, but
it also has a series
of associated rules, a protocol
with it where people aren't
going to be stealing the
caches that they find they're
not going to be messing
with it. There's kind of
an honor amongst the geocaches
code. That goes on a
lot. Like, it's kinda like
the end of the Shawshank
redemption when Morgan Freeman goes
out into the middle of
that field and he finds
the rock that doesn't belong
anywhere on this earth. Great.
Fine. If he had a
GPS that would have been
a geocashing right. He would
have signed his name. He
would leave left all that
money and he would have
gone to Zihuatanejo without it.
Great movie. I love that.
Oh yeah. That's just one
of those shows. It's always
on T and T, but
when it's on, you have
to stop everything you're doing
and watch it from whatever
point exactly it started. So
geocashing involves this GPS using
GPS is to find stuff,
but if you went out
with a camera out into
the boonies and went hiking
and do things that people
with digital cameras do, what,
if you could tag your
photos, not only with the
date and what the camera
was doing and the focal
length of the camera, but
also where you were exactly
when that picture was taken.
Wow. I found this flower
at this exact longitude and
latitude. Wow. So there's a
series of tools that you
can get. Robo geo is
one. So you go out
with a $99 GPS and
you have it keep track
and you have to make
sure that your camera and
your GPS are time synchronized.
Because what you're going to
do is you're going to
take all the way points
from your GPS and all
of your photos that'll have
the right time and coated
in them. You'll actually write
out the GPS, coordinates into
the JPEGs without actually modifying
the JPEG image. So it's
a lossless right? Then you
can take these and you
can put them up on
like flicker, the photo sharing.
There's a thing called mapper,
M a ppr.com that can
take geotagged photos from flicker
and then lay them out
over a flash interface. There's
other tools from geo blogger
and G map track that
will take Google maps, a
bunch of flicker photos or
X, if I'm geocoded or
geotagged, it's called geotagged photos
and overlay them. So you
can say, not only did
I go on a trip,
I went hiking. Here's the
exact route that I went
here are the flowers, bugs
animals that I saw on
the way and exactly where
they are. I would also
like to see what direction
you were facing. That's a
really interesting point that can
be taken from the GPS
too. I'm sure. So it
turns out that it really,
really can't, unless you take
the, the record before you,
and then determined that you
were headed in a certain
direction, but figuring out orientation
and then coming up with
a pie wedge indicating what
direction the camera was facing
is actually trickier. Wow. Then
you think, yeah, there's actually
different ways to do that.
And I posted this on
my blog and a guy
named rich B PO pointed
me to a Ricoh camera.
That's a lower end 3.2
mega pixel, but it has
a compact flashlight. You can
actually plug a GPS into
the bottom of the camera
and get automatically geo and
coded photo. We all have
cameras that have this kind
of stuff built in, like
for camera phones. But, you
know, I don't think we're
very far away from a
really nice snapshot in your,
in your front pocket, six
megapixel camera with built in
geocoding. And that really means
that some, some interesting stuff
can start getting done. Wow.
That's very cool. Great. Okay.
Well, this is a good
place to pause for a
minute and we'd like to
remind our listeners and I'm
sure you would like to
remind them as well this
too, please listen to the
sponsor ad because without our
sponsors, this show would not
be possible. So we'll be
right back after this important
Message. Hey, this is Carl Franklin
checkout test complete from automated
qa.com. Test complete does automated
testing of windows.net framework, Java
and web applications. It's won
jolt awards two years in
a row from software development
magazine, even though it's been
voted best testing tool test
complete is really affordable. It
costs just a fraction of
what you'd have to pay
for its nearest big name.
Competitor TestComplete is standards based
and extensible with a well-documented
plugin API, and the test
scripts use familiar languages, VB
script, JavaScript C sharp script
C plus plus script, and
even Delphi scripts. You choose
the language that works best
for your team. You don't
have to buy a dozen
different modules to test all
your applications. Test complete is
a full test development environment.
It has features like an
easy to use windows test
recorder that auto creates test
scripts and an advanced script
editor with features like syntax
highlighting code completion, and context
sensitive help. It has test
execute a lightweight utility for
running distributed tests and test
recorder, a library for building
tests into your application. And
if you plan on using
visual studio, 2005 team system
test complete integrates nicely with
it and adds a new
test, complete test type. So
do yourself a favor and
download a free evaluation copy
of test complete@automatedqa.com. And we're
back with Scott Hanselman, I'm
Carl Franklin, and you're listening to
the Hanselman it's show. Number
three, Scott. We were just
talking EXIF and geo Caching
and mashups and all the
stuff that you can do
with that. Anything else on
that topic before we move
on? You know, I'm just,
I'm still learning about this,
but one of the things
that's really interesting if you
take the concept of a
mashup, which is when you
take a mapping service like
Google maps or virtual earth,
and you mess with it's
JavaScript and the data is
very, very transparent. You can
get at whatever you want.
You take something simple, like,
like tagging of data, you
know, saying, Oh yeah, the
latitude was this. The longitude
was that. And then things
like RSS and all this
metadata being passed around, even
though it doesn't feel very,
very pretty or very structured,
it's not the kind of
wonderful XML based future that
we thought it would be.
The, the fact that it's
working, the fact that people
are doing interesting things with
this is, is kind of,
it's kind of overwhelming. Sometimes
I get frustrated like, wow,
I really thought this would
be a lot cleaner. I
thought we'd have schema for
all this. And we'd have
formalized metadata. And people are
really shoving this data wherever
they, they think they can.
I mean, flicker doesn't support
geotagging in intrinsically or it
didn't when people started adding
tags, flicker said, upload some
photos and put some veteran,
you know, some tags here,
right? Look flour. Then show
me all the pictures that
are tagged flour, right. Then
someone decides to go and
say, geo colon latitude equals
whatever. And then they start
sucking the data out with
an open source API and
RSS API, and a flicker.
And someone else says, Oh,
I'll slap that on a
map. And then stuff starts
getting done. The there's a
certain beauty in the happiness
of it all. Yeah. And
speaking of hacking, there's some,
there's an item here in
the world of Mac and
Linux. You want to lay
on us, right? Everyone's talking
about this Intel core duo
the whole Intel on Mac
Mac Tel, you know, people
say wind and others saying
Mac tell, you know, it's
a real coup for Intel.
I mean, these guys are
selling chips to anybody and
then they don't care. I
never thought I'd see the
day personally. I thought that
Microsoft had a Intel pretty
much locked down, but I
think it's actually a great
thing. A lot of people
have been talking about, well,
now that I can run
OS X or S 10
on Intel, can I run
this on my T 42?
It, that you've been able
to do this for a
while. There's been these developer
drops of versions of the
Macco S that'll run on
Intel for a while. And
actually there's a number of
websites that I've got information
about this one of which
being OSX 86 project.org, which
is a news site dedicated
to all things related to
getting max running on Intel.
And there's even how to
guides and how to get
your T 42 to dual
boot with max OSX. We've
got one up@shrinkstir.com slash B
as in boy, E Z,
Z for Zed. This guy's
got a step by step,
how to get dual booting
to work a little partition,
magic, a little crazy stuff.
These are all kind of
hacked together, but they're really
letting us see a future
where a lot of people
could potentially dual boot between
these. I think that's interesting.
And we'll talk a little
bit more about it, but
it doesn't this mean more
and more that we could
have virtual PCs and Mac.
There's a lot. I've seen
video of people hibernating their
windows box booting into the
and then switching back,
That's attractive to me, but
the idea that I could
potentially run A Mac on
windows inside of a VM,
that seems like a pretty
interesting thing. I think we'll
see that soon. Interestingly, there's
a guy who who's put
up on a website called
Winex P on Mac, a
bounty. He's actually going to
pay you if you can
get windows XP running on
his Mac. He's I think
it's up to $4,800 right
now. He'll send that up.
Yeah. And when people are
talking about getting Vista windows
Vista to work on the
Mac, but there's an article
up at ARS Technica shrink,
stir.com/b E Y about why
this is never gonna work.
And a buddy of mine,
Phil Lewis pointed me to
this and it makes complete
sense. These new Macs don't
have bios the bios, the
basic input output stuff, right.
And the underlying CMOs where
these things get stored. Yeah.
You sorta need that. Is
that it's an underlying kind
of little low S it's
the little micro S they
don't have a bias because
the bias is a really
old, outdated thing, but, but
Intel's never been able to
toss it until now. So
they've updated that with this
new technology called EFI, it's
up at intel.com/technology/efi or shrink
stir.com/btex EFI, replaces the bios
and actually puts a lot
of that bios on us
onto the operating system. So
this is an extensible firmware
interface. That's EFI that is
in these first Intel max.
That really is an updated
bio specification that lets the
vendor in this case, you
know, Vista or the Mac
OS have operating system, independent
drivers that are really going
to live in the hardware.
So you're actually going to
have drivers for the basic
instruction set of your particular
machine built in and basically
flashed into the device. So
you're not going to be
able to get Vista to
work on a Mac because
all of the EFI stuff
that says, hi, I'm Vista,
and I know how to
talk to your Mac, right?
Isn't in there anymore. That
will possibly be in there.
They could certainly add that
stuff. I mean, Microsoft wants
to get their operating system
running everywhere. So I don't
think that we're going to
see any, any pissing contest
where someone says, well, gosh,
I don't want Macs running
on T 40 twos. And
Microsoft says, I don't want
Vista running on, on, on
max. People want to sell
their software. It sort of
makes sense that the operating
system is tuned to the
platform that it's on. Right.
I mean, even if you
could get it running, would
it be the best platform
for it? Probably not. So
that's a very good point.
Yeah. It's a very good
point because right now the
stuff that I've seen,
Macko S tan, the wireless
as a bit dodgy, the
graphic support just kind of
got to where it needed
to be. It's more like
a, just a challenge. I
like the option, but at
this point, you're right. It
is a challenge. I mean,
if someone thought they could
get , you know, running
on their PSP, I mean,
I've seen people who have
running in an emulator
on, on a PlayStation, portable,
you know, and of course,
then they'll get another emulator
running within that and they'll
get that running doom. And
then they'll want to do
a death match with somebody
on a, on a cell
phone. But, you know, doom
is right. The, the, the
kind of the ultimate thing,
whatever, whatever thing that you've
got, that is hackable. We'll
get doom running on it.
Yeah. Right. But you're right.
It's totally a challenge. They
just try, they like to
jump through the hoops and
that's, that's cool. I support
that. I'm pretty excited about
the possibilities though. And so
let's talk about this, a
portrait of a kite.com. I
went to this on your
recommendation and I, well, I'm,
I'm blown away. What? It's
bizarre, isn't it? What is
the, I have no words.
What am I looking at
here? Yeah. This guy, portrait
of a kite.com has taken
his site and completely skinned
it to look exactly like
a Mac. Now, I don't
mean that he took a
bunch of static pictures and
he made some curves and
some CSS, but literally he
boots up a little pretend
Mac simulator inside of your
browser. You can double click
on the hard drive. You
can check the menus, you
can load the sticky notes,
roll your mouse over the
dock at the bottom, just,
just hover the mouse over.
It actually shrinks and grows
as, I mean, it's crazy.
It's all Ajax. All the
HTML. The whole thing is
actually a showcase site for
a thing called I think
it's called a kite OSX.
Yeah. It's basically a, a,
a big at your own
risk. I don't recommend anyone
do this, but you can
download his stuff. And it's
a whole collection of all
the different themes and skins
and scanners that you could
use to make your windows
system look exactly like a
Mac. It's a collection of
all this it's object, doc
it's window blinds. It's skins
for Microsoft MSN messenger. It's
everything. You look at a
screenshot section. It will make
your PC other than the
fact that you've got internet
Explorer and the windows XP,
internet Explorer, icon look exactly
like a Mac. It'll put
a menu at the top.
It'll give you a doc.
It'll give you the trashcan.
It'll give you an about
this Mac menu. It actually
goes into some of your
system DLLs and actually patches
some of the icons so
that when windows in Explorer
goes to paint certain things,
it will get the Mac
icon. Instead. It's pretty hardcore.
It is very hard core.
I had, I had a
strange bug, a problem with
this site in internet Explorer,
I'm, I'm running and I'm
pretty high. I'm actually running
a dual monitor, set up
with different resolutions in each
monitor. And I wonder if
that doesn't have something to
do with it, but, but
it did work in Firefox.
So, and you don't have
any problems with internet Explorer.
Don't, don't seem To, but
it's possible. You know, I
should recommend people try it
and in a, in a
either browser and give it
a try, but I'm running
the site. Of course won't
hurt your machine downloading and
installing his stuff. That's definitely
something that you would want
to do on a throw
away a machine. Yeah. But
it is kind of a
kick. Very, very cool. So
is this the only OS
that people can choose OSX?
What about that other operating
system that has a penguin
associated with it? Well, Linux,
I think is really coming
up on the desktop size
and on the desktop side
of things I've been using
this Linux called Uber boon
to Linux Boone, to UBU
N T U Linux dot
or go Boone. Two's a
Zulu word. That means humanity
towards other, toward humanity, towards
others@ubuntulinux.org. You can download this.
Interestingly, there's a live CD.
And I recommend that everyone
try this, download the live
CD from a boon to
linux.org. If you don't have
a fast connection, they'll mail
you the CD for free.
Wow. You can boot off
of it. And it'll boot
up a complete version of
Linux on your system without
touching your C drive and
let you try it out.
People are calling this the
third world desktop. And even
though the term third world
is sometimes disparaged as being
not a very appropriate and
kind word for machines in
countries that are maybe not
the latest penny and four,
and not the latest. Andy,
I personally have been able
to bring a lot of
really old laptops back to
life with wound tool annex.
I took a whole series
of Pentium three low, low
end Pentium 3d Dells, 128
megs of Ram, 256 major
Ram small four gig, eight
gig hard drives, and really
brought them back to usefulness
with UConn to Linux slapped
in a  credit card
and got that thing on
the network. Automatic update, complete
working desktop copies of a
word and Excel clone via
open office. Firefox chat sent
them off to Zimbabwe, to
South Africa. Wow, absolutely thrilled. If
you've got an old machine
and you want to give
it to the kids, there's
a version of a boon
to, for children called edgy
boon to it's all loaded
preloaded with educational software for
kids from kindergarten through 12,
we just can't say enough.
Nice things. We have to
do another whole show on
it one day. No, I
haven't been keeping up with
Linux, but the last I
knew it was still a
little bit tweaky to get
stuff up and running. It
sounds like they've worked a
lot of the kinks out
drivers are not an issue
To be better and better.
A USB works, USB keys.
You just plug them in
and they're automatically mounted, huh?
People are calling a boon
to Linux Linux for human
beings. Huh? Wow. They've got
an automatic updater. I actually
updated the complete operating system
from their last April release
to their last October release.
Wow. I may have to
check it out. Very cool.
The live CD makes it
really easy to check out
without having to worry about
hurting your machine. Does it
work on a virtual PC?
I mean, it does. You
can install it with a
virtual PC. There are some
rules and some downloads. If
you do a search for
a FAQ on how to
install a boon too, there's
some tricks you need to
do to make sure that
it supports the virtual PC
virtual VGA driver. But once
you get that, you're totally
set. I really recommend the
live stuff. If you just
boot off the CD works
great. Right? Excellent. Onto the
bugs. What you got for
us this week in bug
land. Wow. We had some
pretty cool stuff going on
over at curly. And I
posted about this. I think
just yesterday, you know, XSLT
is kind of where it
all happens. It's, it's become
kind of the scripting language
does your for, for major
data transformation. It's just like
Pearl likes to suck through
text files. People are using
XSLT to make major transformations
in their XML data. And
we had a big one.
We had a big 200
5,300 Meg file shows up
every day, little two K
three K XSLT needs to
transform this 300 Meg file.
But it was written three
years ago. We used ms.
XSL. It's a little command
line utility you can download
from Microsoft. That's a front
end on the ms. XML
Dom. And it was crashing.
Our file was getting so
large that we were actually
running out of memory and
getting a memory exception. So
then we switched over to
using the.net stuff. We used
old Lake GenCos and XSLT,
which is a front end
command line that talks to
the.net XSLT stuff. The nice
thing about this is that
it's command line compatible, which
means all the switches that
we're used to using with
MSX SSL, the, the old
comm based one, you've used
this in VB VB six,
right? Add, well, you know,
add reference XML. There was
version three, version four and
XSLT has got command line
switch compatibility with the, a,
the comm stuff. But our,
our memory was kind of
leveling out about a gig
and it was taking, you
know, 10, 15 minutes to
do this. Well, we had
some guys take a look
at this. And the style
sheet was really written like
a little program. You know,
if you've written an extra
cell style sheet yourself, You
know, I've stayed clear away
from XSLT seeing is I
don't like to spend a
lot of time tweaking, tweaking
textiles. Yeah. It's pretty crazy.
Most people want to sit
down and write these things
like their little programs. There's
a four H there's variables.
You can call functions with
parameters. So we wrote this
kind of little program, but
it turned out that that
wasn't the way XSLT wanted
to work. Your input document
has a series of elements
that you want to match
on. Let's say you've got
an input document. That's got
a root. No, that says
books. And you've got book,
book, book, book, book, a
programmer would typically write something
like for each book in
books. Right. Do some stuff
with XSLT. They don't think
about things like that. They
want you to say, write
up a template that is
the handler for books and
all automatically call it when
I see a book go
by. Does that make sense?
Yeah. So we rewrote the
style sheet. Actually, a Andy
Phoenix did over the weekend
and to, to see if
he could get it working,
he rewrote it, it became
a little smaller. It became
a lot simpler to understand
because each element that we
were handling had a template
set up to handle it.
So this, this style sheet
by just changing the style
sheet from being very procedural,
to being very declarative, we
went from a 10 minute
run to being a, a
three minute run. Wow, cool.
So here's the interesting thing
though. This new improved XSLT,
when run under.net one.one didn't
improve at all. We had
better memory usage, but it
still took 10 minutes. We
ended up going back to
the old combat stuff. So
I dug into this turns
out that the real hardcore
XSL guys who use Microsoft
still use this ms. XML
for, they like really feel
that this is the best
XSLT processor for performance. It's
unmanaged code. It's calm, but
it's wicked fast. And the
dotnet one, one XSLT processor
was really not very well
thought of I had no
idea. Right? So you started,
yeah. So, so I said,
well, this can't be the
case. I've heard so much
great things about dotnet to,
Oh, I gotta check this
out. So I went up
to O'Lakes site and I
got an XSLT to the
dotnet to O version that
fronts all the new stuff.
Now the XSLT processor has
been completely rewritten in dotnet
to, Oh, I was actually
fortunate enough to have a
gentleman named Michael Brundage who
reads my blog post about
this. He was actually on
that team and came up
with a lot of these
techniques and indicated to me
that Chris Suber, who works
at Amazon, got the ball
rolling on these major improvements,
as well as Helena
who rewrote the XML, parsers,
all of this work being
done in XSLT for dotnet
to, Oh, we ran the
new XSLT. The whole thing
happened in 59 seconds. Oh
my God. 10 times faster
on dotnet to, Oh, wow.
I, I mean, I couldn't,
I mean, I literally couldn't
believe it. I wonder if
I wonder if biz talk
is driving any of that
because you know, a big
part of the, the appeal
of BizTalk is the XSLT
transformer, whatever they call it.
I'm not even sure what
they call it, but Yeah,
I don't know. But I
do know this though. I
installed SQL server express recently,
and I know you've know
you've done that. It actually
installs ms. XML six, the
unmanaged comm based stuff, and
the four XML, you know,
you say like select star
from books for XML auto
that apparently still using the
unmanaged code, the, the ms.
XML six, and you can
go up to my blog
and read about how I
actually kind of took this
to the next level and
took the source code for
ms. XSL and kind of
rewrote it a little bit
to, to use the new
ms. XML six stuff, and
found that I did get
a, a five X improvement,
but didn't get that dramatic
improvement until I switched over
to dotnet to, Oh, either
way for people who are
doing XSLT, there are good
things coming. And if you
are doing some really hardcore
xslt.net two, Oh, wicked fast,
wicked fast, great, fantastic stuff.
And if you're a comm
programmer and you're doing VB
six, you've got some PB
six legacy code. Take a
look at ms. XML six,
you can download the SDK
for change your prog IDs
to point to the Dom
document six. Oh. And you
could potentially get some, some
pretty impressive gains in performance.
Great. Yeah. There's a couple
of details up on the
blog that folks should check
out. There were some security
changes to MMS XML six,
and we talk about how
we fix those and worked
around them. Cool. That's up
at shrink, stir.com/bf zero. Great.
So as we're heading out
the door here, Carl, but
last time as we were
heading out the door, you
were talking about picking up
a Prius, you know, my
wife and I have gotten
hybrid cars and now you're
jumping on board. Just got
it yesterday. That would be
Monday. Yeah. So I've been
looking online to see what
people have been doing with
their Prius's cause it is
the geeks car. Yeah. The
pre I, cause it is
a geeks car. Right. And,
and what could be better
than a car with a
computer that you can hack
into and, or, you know,
do things with. And the
most interesting thing I found
was that a well there's
a lot of places that
cite this story, but just
one of them is a
tree hugger@shrinks.com slash . And
this is a guy who
spent a lot of money
in research to boost his
Prius, to get about 250
miles to the gallon. Actually,
this one, he he's getting
110 miles per gallon, but
I have heard of others.
In fact, there's a company
in California that for a
mere 12 grand, which doesn't
add up, I've done the
math for a mere 12
grand will install an array
of batteries in the trunk
and you plug it in
at night. So there's this
whole plugin Prius movement going
on. You plug it in
at night costs about a
dollar a day to charge
those batteries. But with normal
driving, you can get about
a hundred, 110 miles to
the gallon. And if you
follow some simple rules, like
only go 55 on the
highway, and don't accelerate really
hard, you know, in that
kind of stuff, you can
achieve 200, 250 miles to
gallon. But this guy in
this particular article and tree
hugger says that he did
it for about $3,000 worth
of parts. Wow. Yeah. The,
the, the fundamental idea behind
this is that they're fooling
the Prius into thinking it's
got a lot of battery
power. The Prius tries to
keep its batteries above 20%
charge and below 80, it
tries to keep it in
that sweet spot. And they
try to convince the Prius
that the batteries are actually
charged up to 100%. So
it stays on battery power
longer. Right. And when they
say that they can get
a hundred or 150, it's
actually kind of in aggregate.
So for example, I have
to go only one exit
to get to work. Yeah.
So I could take the
back roads beyond battery power
only, and I could really
spend the entire week right.
On battery power. Right. And
then just use the, use
the gas on the weekends,
right? Yeah. So it really
is an aggregate. You can
that's right. If you're just
running around town, you could
just go forever on batteries.
Well, that dollar a day,
you know, is $365 a
year, which over the length
of the ownership of the
car, let's say 10 years
could be, you know, 3,600
bucks, $3,700. So you've got
to take that into account.
And of course, you know,
the fact that you can
do this for $3,000 make
sense, but if you were
going to go to a
company and you know, and
install batteries for 12 grand,
you basically have to have
gas costing like five, $6
a gallon before. That really
makes sense. And really, as
someone who bought a Prius,
you're thinking about the environment.
So the idea is to
burn less fossil fuels does
a dollar worth of gas
that you're saving. And instead
having the car plugged into
your home because more fossil
fuels to be taken out
from the coal mine that
you spent a dollar on
that sends the electricity to
your house, right? So you
gotta think, are you getting
clean power? Like here at
Portland, general electric, we can
say that I want some
percentage of my power to
come from wind or from
hydroelectric. But if your stuff's
coming from a coal mine,
I don't know what the
environmental impact is between a
dollar at the pump and
a dollar spent at your
local electric. So clearly the
best thing to do is
to put up a windmill
in your backyard and plug
your Prius into that at
night. And then you can
sleep at night, right? Yeah.
Or you can do it.
I'm doing it. Ride your
bike to the store. There
you go. All right, Scott,
it's been great talking to
you. I hope everybody enjoyed
the show this week and
we'll catch you next week
on Hansel minutes.